---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/05-may/2025-05-29/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-05-29"}
---

This may be the only day since I have forgotten when I had a complete mental rest. At least, in the sense that I feel like I am wanting to think of an idea. I decided that it is the time for me to write my log for the day because I have started once again to scour the internet for some things that I can pour my attention on. In this moment of lucidity, I caught and stopped myself from [[_thoughts/on the compulsion to search for novel ideas\|on the compulsion to search for novel ideas]].

Just to dial back from that, I think I have been feeling this bit of "extra" mental energy because the quietness of daily life has come back. The house repairs ended yesterday and the interruptions have decreased dramatically. I feel like the space inside my mind has expanded when they were only emptied of the tasks that have remained pending for a lot of time. Conversations with other people have ceased. Worries about expecting people coming to our house unannounced has vanished alongside the people who caused it. There is a sudden break of human interactions that have been interweaving my personal and professional life. At some point, I feel like I am back to the person who I was before I had desired to properly communicate to people. Again, I am filled with my ideas, and just today, the feeling of nothing to do and think about has become foreign to me to the point that my mind passively looked for new ideas to think about. This is a comma, a healthy punctuated pause in speech that I have been trying to articulate. I needed this, hoping to find a new confidence to face the next month with executing the plans I have for the rest of the year.