---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/05-may/2025-05-31/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-05-31"}
---

This will be the first adjustment that I will make in writing logs moving forward. I will now permit myself to skip one day of log to explore avenues of thought and writing practice that I want to implement that I think would make direct impact on my desired output. What I mean by this is I want to make some space for thoughts that are beginning to surface in my mind and I decide to do that by reducing some activity in actually writing daily logs.
- I only plan to allow myself to skip a day at this point. Increasing this lag may snowball into a negative behavior that result to inconsistency and eventually lead to abandoning writing daily logs.
- In my current review of my daily logs, I find that there are some thought-post worthy logs that I think would be more valuable if I can isolate them with a title for easier reference. I also feel bad that I am not being productive in a sense of writing something that holds more value than just my fleeting thoughts. Because of this, I have actively started referencing my logs into a more coherent future post. I want to write more with intention and develop the ideas that I have articulated in my logs.
- This change was prompted when I was able to write two posts under thoughts, which made me feel good. These ideas are actually something that I have been wrestling with and the logs aren't fully capturing them in a way that are more coherent.
	- So moving forward, I am expecting more non-log entries, while also keeping up with my daily writing habits. This reallocation of energy and load feels a lot better when I think of my own way of managing this...whatever you may call it.

It also feels a bit timely that I need to decide about this update when we are nearing the middle of the year. I still have a month to think about a lot of the projects that are going on in my head and polish some skills that I am trying to learn. Lately, work has been pushing me towards the direction that I want to improve on myself despite some looming misalignments with this career in the near future. I just want to harmonize everything before I finally decide on which path to take in the midst of everything.

Overall, I can feel myself getting better. May was a month that was tough to crack, broke me in some ways, but in the end, it all felt like a process of transformation that has been trying to temper my spirit for longer days that await.