---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/05-may/2025-05-10/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-05-10"}
---

Living a life without interruptions is such a privilege to have. At most, it is probably one of the best luxury in this world besides wealth. Just having enough time to do the things that you planned to do is like riding on an empty freeway. Everything is seamless. The rough edges on the road become less than a minor inconvenience. No one to blame in having someone or something slow you down because in this case, the only one who can slow you down is yourself.

I think today is that reminder that living an uninterrupted life is an impossibility for me because the conditions to achieve that state is something that would require me to live away from people. It must be considered that others are important enough to feel the weight of living, that gravity, that patience of sitting on a heavy traffic, that slowness of lining up on a queue. 

But still there are those times when you wish you can just be alone. Those wishes may come true but realistically speaking, they can only happen in short bursts of a weekend, a vacation, or even the destitute feeling of freedom of having only a single day for yourself. I still feel claustrophobic about getting exposed to other people for an extended period of time and there is always a need for me to detach. A single day is not enough for me. It derails my thoughts and especially my plans where they are not just activities. I plan my free time of not planning anything. It gives my brain to decompress after a loaded social interaction.

I've got plans today but life happens. Even in this scale, I am reminded of my smallness in this universe and how little of it is actually in my control.