---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/04-april/2025-04-12/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-04-12"}
---

I might be piecing together my personal truth in pursuit of the universal. Since I started with Hegel, everything, the world and myself became increasingly dialectical. This brings me a certain mode of reality in which I understand the world. Also, it almost makes me feel like I am going away from everything else. 

Since I have been talking a whole lot about spirituality and humanity itself, it feels like I am (or at least some speck of an idea in my mind is) trying to emerge from an impasse. I wanted to claim that everything about the world can be understood completely by understanding (and with this, saying that everything is parallel to) the self.

A lot of what I am trying to think of and realize is that the Self as the Other is one of the absolute truths in the world that is also dynamic. How we relate to the world (to other people and its contents) is also how we relate to ourselves, which is influenced by and is being influenced with every interaction that we make in this world. Every decision, every ounce of thought, accounts for a worldview that has been allowing us to perceive the world using a type of unique amalgamated language that we have made as our own perspective.

This came about as my personal belief system has been challenged by a good and true Christian. My contention is that we are having modern misreadings of The Bible that is becoming less and less relevant as the world changes. I am not sure about how and when Christianity reach a milestone where some belief and faith reach a certain required "reinterpretation" because of how the world is progressing but I do believe that any person who believe the sacred text word for word to be timeless is ought to be derailed on a misguided application of the faith.

It is not that I deny everything Christianity stands for. I just think that perhaps, even with some good intentions, we must still allow for some time to stop and think to reconsider the texts as we observe how the world is turning out to be right before our very eyes.