---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/04-april/2025-04-05/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-04-05"}
---

Faith is within the realm of unknowing. Without the concept of God, it is only a trust in the universe that everything will turn out good in the end. Faith is possible without the concept of God because we have the self. In this case, the self must be conceived *not as a substitute for God but as another avenue in which faith can be conceived.* In conceiving faith through the self, it happens as an unyielding understanding that everything that you can know, is something that you already know and you just don't know it yet. Faith becomes a process of aligning with your own complete self *as it goes through the process of completion.* It becomes a self-willing image that is only possible by believing in the self. Yet, this faces a huge pitfall of overconfidence and hubris, which must be carefully treaded because of their inevitability throughout this process. Hubris must not be avoided but only confronted. It is a path of overcoming the self as it actualizes itself to be its complete form in order for it to successfully function as the substitute for a faith that is formed by a belief in God.

With all my current experiences with journeying through the Christian faith, I believe it is necessary for me to keep in touch with the belief that I have always felt myself at home with. That is with the self and its possible means for transcendence. I do not wish to reappropriate Christian ideas into my own personal framework of the world but I still want to test if I am still capable of conceptually removing my mind out of the Christian belief system to get rid of any possible biases that I might have as I become comfortable with it.