---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/ideas/experiencing-art/","tags":["humanity","thoughts","art"],"created":"2024-09-22T06:59:17.382+08:00","updated":"2024-12-17T17:56:10.922+08:00"}
---

# time in experience
Art can be experienced in various mediums. Each medium carries its own significance by existing because of its own limitations. Music, film, literature, and performance art can only be experienced by the unfolding of time. Photography and the rest of visual art are both experienced in an instant while at the same time requires a varied amount of time from each person for the absorption of time framed within that two-dimensional work of art.

Time is an essential factor in experiencing art, which is to say time is a requirement for an experiential event to happen. The definition of the human experience is enveloped by time. To describe the human experience, we must delve into the interweaving aspects of social, political, psychological, and historical facets of the overall complexities of the human nature. In this case, to describe the human experience in simple terms because a lot has happened since the first man. To encapsulate the human experience in a single word, statement, or paragraph will always lead to a gap in information, if one wants to illustrate it exactly as it is. To define the human experience must always lead to the breaking down of its concepts into smaller units in order to arrive at a satisfying conclusion. At the same time, since our definition is dependent in time, the current definition will change in the future. But not everyone has "time" for that. Everyone wants simple answers. And at this moment, I am not capable of giving time to other people for their own benefit.

# art in time
Art requires time. It requires the unfolding of time--the ever so unadulterated attention of creation. The artwork itself is the amalgamation of time that the artwork required for its existence. Entering the creative process to create art always starts with a blood pact for perfection. A blood pact that demands the time of the artist, which in turn is paid for by energy, attention, and their own self. In fulfilling that pact, a good work of art can be created. 

A work of art that solidifies the artist's time and their soul with it. When the artist creates their artwork, time becomes a vehicle in which the artist's being is being distilled into what is being created. Since art does not have an innate function--it is an aberration of nature also known as human expression, which does not serve anything other than itself--it is almost a hair's breadth into being the same level with trash, while at the same time, its uniqueness as a trash may elevate it exponentially further from being a simple garbage. It may even be said that the artist, as they create their artwork is investing their time into a valueless piece of junk that only serves the purpose of human expression.

Time defines the purpose of the art--not the artist nor the audience. Purpose becomes an after-effect. The purpose of art is its consequence and the aftermath. Speech and communication, whatever the person's intention may be, can be received differently from what was intended.

# experiencing art
There is a thin line between experiencing nothing versus experiencing everything in a piece of art. In these terms, we can assume giving value to a work of art depends on how we experience them. As an object, we experience art through the senses: by looking, touching, hearing, and tasting--in considering food as works of art experienced through taste. The immediate sensory perception glues us into the experience of the artwork and our current state at the moment of experience. We define the meaning of art with our interaction with it. When the moment of interaction hits, that moment will always be different for another moment with the same artwork. We as humans are the variable in the equation of experience. The artwork is a constant in this scenario. It never changes. Our perception of it changes over time. The experience is always dynamic.

# the authentic experience
Authenticity is a question of the one true reality. In saying that something is authentic, it is an existence that is the sole origin of everything that has come before it. The authenticity of an object is a critique of that object's truth.