---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/thoughts/the-creation-of-god/","tags":["thoughs","ideas","divine"],"noteIcon":"","updated":"2024-12-17T17:58:02.819+08:00"}
---

Man's ceaseless search for a god ends up creating one. The externalized Other, whereas man can imagine a being bigger than himself while at the same time imagining himself in the process. This imagination of the self as a god in turn creates that distance dissociating himself from the being he is imagining: that gap due to man's inadequate belief of oneself springing from the necessity for a community because he knows that he alone cannot accomplish big things. The reality is he needs the help of other men. So he imagines a version of himself who can do everything, whereas that distance, that gap, is the missing link that differentiates man from god.

Man cannot believe in himself to do great things so creates a version in the mind that can do so. A version of himself that can grant whatever he wishes because man's mind is wired to protect itself from pain. From the pain of being inadequate, from the pain of being incapable of achieving things bigger than himself, from the pain of swallowing his pride so big, his mind creates the divine--he cowers under the merciful being that can do and be everything: the god he created.

Gods are born out of learned helplessness. Prayer is a desperate action: the last resort in front of a perceived lack of control. At some point, it becomes a refusal to act: a decision made to take matters into his own hands--a passive excuse to refuse to understand and to not exert one's will due to discomfort of action and to act in exchange of leaving one's comfort zone. The existence of gods is a choice made by man. A necessary fiction to drive the demons from one's psyche. To escape accountability under the guise of the consciousness of nature. It is an externalization of the self to whom someone out there must be able to fix what the self itself is unable to.

What man fashions in fiction is always a version of himself. In attempting to understand himself, is when he starts to understand godhood and discover the gods living inside himself.