---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-13/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-13"}
---

Already feels like I will have my ideal rest this weekend. All work that I've been mulling over last month has finally ended and it feels like the weight of being has been lifted off my shoulders. It has been that massive ball of existence that has been weighing on me for the reason that my duties have been eclipsed by this sense of mundane repetition.

A lot of days were spent into thinking what other things could I be doing besides this work that I have been doing in the past two years. My brain is craving for any novel activity that would also fulfill my reason to exist. It's really one of those long periods of rough patches that I knew I should just face in the slowness of everyday. It is ironic that in thinking my desire to speed up time because I want it all to be over, my experience became more of a focused attention to the seconds of the day. The thought of escapism always outweigh the passing of time, only adding to its density, distorting a moment to a looming dread of repetition.

But now, we are here in the weightlessness of being. At least, for a brief moment and in its perfect timing: the weekend is already in sight. No other nagging thought of postponing work for next week and no impending worries during the weekend about the work that I'll be doing for next week.

Freedom is truly earned. Nothing in the world would taste this sweet if it's just a given. The storms pass and the sky will show itself to you when the time is right.