---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-24/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-24"}
---

Freedom in practice implies radical acts because it is the ultimate expression of man: to break free from the curse in all its physicality. From thoughts, refinement, to desire and its externalization. A thought expressed to sublate that contradiction.

Is breaking free from the curse the goal? In a sense, we must exorcise the chains that bind us from attaining true freedom. However, this is still operating within the definition that we identify freedom as one of the essences of what it means to be human. But there is another possibility of defining humanity that does not entail transcendence but is capable of becoming something else. That is, a type of transformation that makes human a multifaceted being, capable of transforming itself within its various forms.

Perhaps this is already the title in which we want to call ourselves as we progress in life. A writer, a carpenter, a business analyst, a mother, a disciple of God, and so on. These transformations may occur at various stages in life that does not constitute an overall change in one's constitution. One may become many and singular at the same time. But in this case, we do not seek to define humanity. Humanity becomes defined and it is transformation and transcendence that we want to define. However, transformation may fit this definition of humanity but transcendence still does not satisfy the scope of change that is being done in this definition of humanity as a self-transcending subject.

Humanity in this definition becomes an umbrella of concepts for a plethora of beings. It becomes a collection of possible outcomes that almost contradict itself on its own definition because it may contain the possibility of defining a human that is animal-like. It becomes a perpetual self-morphing being that is free to become anything but still remains subtly human because of that essential fact.

Is this one of the ways in how freedom can be defined in human terms? It affirms human transformation but transcendence still remains unanswered.