---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-02/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-02"}
---

Some messages are becoming clear. Some decisions are becoming more apparent. I am now living through this decision even without admitting to myself that I have made this decision. This paradoxical thought is an impossible one. I cannot elucidate this experience without first telling a lie: that I have not made the decision. Because, how am I able to say, with confidence, that I am only now trying to find out why I made the decision by living through it?

What I only have right now is *awareness.* I have previously written about the [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-13#^71ce6e\|perception of my own trinity]]. There is a way to predict our choices by being able to imagine a future self that is reasonably caused by the circumstances that you are able to see right now. Take it as a skill of foresight. You can only predict what would happen if you have a good reading of the multiple things that are happening around you, including their relationships and how they affect each other. It is basically data gathering and predictive analysis. I don't know what will happen but I can see three possible things that can happen based on the state of the world right now. That is what I can hold as the future states within the realm of what I can see.

Now, as things move slowly, gradually, each of those possibilities have certain milestones to meet, which are either a point of convergence or divergence within those three possibilities. What I mean by this is that in predicting possibilities, it is always and very likely that those possibilities are all *intertwined.* It is possible that more often than not, they are not parallel possibilities because decisions made in every possibility may point towards the fulfillment of other possibilities. As I imagine it, it is a kind of *closed openness*, which is I claim to be a kind of understanding of the world that allows us to imagine a future that is not so wholly a fantasy so I avoid fabricating a future that only satisfies my biases.

A prediction that results to only few possibilities is the only kind of prediction that I can consider to be worth it and realistic. If I try to predict an outcome with a lot of possibilities, that can only mean two things:
* either I do not have a firm grasp of the relationships of every elements involved in the situation, or
* I am in denial of the realistic possibilities so I try to look for a *way out* of the thing I cannot accept.

This prediction can only take the form of my own imagined future state of myself, which is—based on what I am doing right now, where I am, and in the pattern of my current choices—a path that I am already taking. As I see the possibilities ahead of me, I also see myself walking along one of the paths I see, and that is the point that I know that I have already made my decision.

It is also possible that I may be mistaken and that I have not seen where I am going because actually walking on the path is different from just *imagining the path*. I know that there is a certain level of self-knowledge that must be established before all these activities of prediction proves to be somewhat of a meaningful and insightful activity but I am also aware that a total self-knowledge is too difficult, if not impossible, to attain. I cannot fully proclaim, in confidence, that "I know myself full well." because it is a hubris that I cannot delve into. Let me preserve an ounce of humility at this point because I know that I do not only serve myself.

So right now, I am here.