---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-21/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-21"}
---

We as humans have often sought for something bigger than ourselves. This act of seeking may lead most people into despair because more often than not, the object of seeking is substituted by one's myriad of biases. It is a kaleidoscope of false assumptions to what we want. Desire is an act of self-discovery. Prior to obtaining the object of desire, it is a mirage. This mirage is the idea of the object of desire: what we think we want.

We want love, happiness, recognition, truth, and even the whole world. But these things must first be filtered by our own perception. What do we think love is? By that definition, is it the true definition of love? What about understanding why love is the object of our desire? Is it more of recognition rather than love? What separates love from recognition? How can we know which is which? How can we know which one is what we truly want and we're not conflating it with other things? Do we want something because it makes us look better in the eyes of others? Is this a noble pursuit? Why would it be noble? Is what we think nobility truly means or are we just feeding our own narcissistic tendencies?

I mean, there are a lot of paths that we can take this line of questioning towards but perhaps this is also the crux of the matter when it comes to finding God. For a short answer, I can only say that *The best position in pursuing God is to maintain the hiddenness and unknowability of God while forging a path towards affirming the existence of an unknowable void inside one's existence.*

This is a position of meaning-making that is aligned to human nature and self-transcendence. The call of the void within is the call of the desire to know itself. Without that knowledge, God can become anything we want because of the failure to recognize the mirage that obfuscates our vision. Maintaining the idea that God is truly unknowable positions us to see the void in ourselves to humble ourselves and recognize that in each individual, there lies a desire to understand the world. That understanding must be weighed by the idea that one cannot understand the entirety of the world in one lifetime.