---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-31/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-31"}
---

I am peeking a bit into Hegel lately. Paused Spinoza for a while because of the sheer density of ideas that I think I must simmer first before actually continuing. But reflecting on what I have learned so far, I am starting to feel a departure from his framework. I don't think that this is coming from a place of understanding. By this, I mean that I don't think that my ideas are solely Spinozist, which has been how I hold my beliefs to myself. As I start my reading of Hegel, I start to see similar patterns of dialectic thought that has shaped my cognitive practice since graduating from university. And as I have been immersing myself to Spinoza's *Ethics,* I start to understand that this framework is what I *desire* to achieve. To make it more clear by what I mean with "departure," I understand that Spinoza's concepts are not yet what I am following, but Hegel's in terms of procedural development.

I found that Spinoza works backwards. From the conception of the universe in a top to bottom approach. Hegel works in a three-dimensional approach where we have two polarities that are relational and define each other that *progresses in time* towards a singularity. This might be the most simplistic and misinformed understanding of Hegel's dialectics but it is how I make sense of it in my head right now.

April would seem like another month of rediscovery and reframing. This month has been all about religion, spirituality, and the universe. Some thoughts about my personal relationships has been left into the sidelines. This is one of the polarity that I must check on myself with in the coming weeks. A lot of the world right now makes sense in the form of signals. It can be a TV show, a movie, a book, and even a memory. But everything makes sense. I feel like I am growing more sensitive to the motions of the earth. I am taking this opportunity to retrieve my lost focus since February. I am confident that the engine to leave this conceptual space is set even if they are still incomplete. I trust that this is enough for me to make a considerable move forward and take me to a place that can hold everything I carry.