---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-27/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-27"}
---

A dense introspection occurred lately. This one is fueled by a momentary doubt that is a reaction based on fear of being a hypocrite. I asked myself if, with all my attempts to define a life worth living and to practice living a virtuous life, am I displaying a sense of covert narcissism that is self-aware, allowing itself to blend into the background of my thoughts and operating under the guise of self-improvement? Is this how Descartes doubted his thoughts as the devil's work? Only that I know that this is a fleeting thought, I am also cautious of what my next steps are. Since I have briefly touched upon my [[_logs/_03_March/2025-03-25#^f85780\|problem with transcendence]] and stopped when I noticed that I am treading on uncharted waters, I decided to take some time to let it all in.

So far, here's what I have gotten:
- Transcendence as a full transformation, that is, a complete change of a human into a higher being is idealistically impossible because of physical corporeality. Immortality as an aspect of transcendence is incorrect insofar as it only *transcends corporeality.* We want a holistic transcendence of the physical, intellectual, and spiritual.
- Would this then mean that we are limited to a [[_logs/_03_March/2025-03-24#^3c6ad8\|human transformation]] instead and transcendence is impossible? Not at all. The path of physical transformation in humans that would allow transcendence to happen is in death, and supported by a mature intellect (a wise, enlightened human), and a mature spirit. this This path of transcendence is towards a self-sacrifice for an idea. It doesn't have to be noble. It doesn't have to be lofty. One only needs to act based on the idea itself, technically being the embodiment of it, becoming it, and living and dying for it.
- This is transcendence is becoming as an enduring idea beyond death.