---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/03-march/2025-03-12/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-03-12"}
---

Spinoza's *Ethics* is my main focus of study this week. For once, I have begun exercising a more distinct approach to logical thinking. Splitting things up to categories, calling each element into a cohesive hierarchy of things help me to organize my own way of thinking.

It was revealed to me that I always think in causation. That one thing must always be caused by another, forming a linear thought process. The inter-connectedness of things, in my mind, is governed by a starting point and its ending or closure. While I think that is still a helpful way to make sense of the world, it lacks the aspect of thinking in terms of immanence. That there is a way to unify everything while keeping each element separate by recognizing the specific qualities that makes them unique and by understanding their essence, therefore function as to why they exist.

Spinoza helps me understand this and as I go on from part 1 and deeper into his propositions (I'm now at IP11 after three days), I am feeling a different sense of understanding and relating. This coexistence with other people and in recognizing our sameness, allowing me to make sense of each person's reason for being there.

People become expressions of being. As representations of a thought, both as modes of thought and modes of extension as flesh. I would want to go deeper into this line of inquiry even though my head is already throbbing after a mere 5 pages of total density of thought and exercise in logic.