---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/2025-01-15/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-15"}
---

I did a lot of changes on the website today. A whole lot of trial and error processes trying to improve how it looks and how aesthetics shouldn't distract from the reading experience. I might have spent more than 8 hours today doing this. Back and forth from my code editor > commit all changes > sync to my host and repeat at least less than a thousand times.

For some reason I went through this process tirelessly and operating all changes on production without testing all the changes I am trying to make using a localhost server. I just realized it now... And I think I just wasted a lot of time. Well...

I don't know if this is an attempt to console myself but I may have an immediate reaction of disappointment but "wasted time" does not feel like a loss for me. If it's worth mentioning, I did not feel that I'm feeling enough frustration to just quit through the process while I was at it today. For example, I wanted to have an underline animation instead of a static underline for every link just for the kicks. I could have sped up the process by opening a localhost so I don't have to wait a couple of minutes for it only to see it up live on my site. I did that. At least less than a thousand times today. Voluntarily. Is this grit? But I'm more inclined that this is just stupidity. I think I just enjoy banging my head on the wall until it bleeds.

Couple it with my care for any passion project where I just can't stop until I get a point where I'm satisfied with the results. At this point in real-time, before I publish this entry, I am still in the process of reverting a commit, which is roughly 15 commits before the current one where I managed to fuck everything up just because I want to add my socials in the navbar...

And it just failed...

God, now I'm frustrated. I will try to fix this in the meantime. So yeah. Some logs will just be some bits like this when I feel like I'm just rambling. Squeezing some braincells to write something. I hope when I publish this before I sleep, the code is stable.