---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/2025-01-26/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-26"}
---

There is a spiritual aspect to consistency, discipline, and routine. These are the things that drive me to have this perception about [[_logs/2025-01-13#^ea566a\|commitment]]. The act of doing regardless of the circumstances. It is a demonstration of one's own will—spirit.

I've been too attached to this idea that I knew I have talked about this a lot of times in the past [^1][^2][^3] but I still keep finding myself talking about it more. Most probably it is because how I see that everything about this aspect, even about the attempts to be consistent and disciplining yourself must always come from a place of love.

Commitment is always anchored by a strong desire that compels the body to move. It is larger than thought, but it must always begin with a thought. A thought that is similar to a pact, a vow, and a promise to oneself that must be fulfilled no matter what it takes. It is within the realm of duty. A strong sense of duty arrives with a strong sense of purpose. One is able to act on his own will, to fulfill his duty because he knows why he is doing it. The scope is clear. The promise is defined. Committing to the act only becomes a daily check-in. Everyday becomes a performance of a duty that varies in intensity. What is more important is not how it is done but what must be done should be done. Adapting to the situation to get things done is one of its requirements.

Perhaps this is one of the reasons why committed people have a secure aura around them. They may not be the most kind or easygoing people you will ever meet but there is a pleasure to even witness them do what they do best. They make acting out on your own thoughts effortless. They make the world appear so simple. They make existing appear so good and holy. Doing every single thing the same way every single day and being flexible on doing them regardless of the circumstances is a demonstration of a masterful existence. The unwavering human spirit in the face of the world's randomness, unfazed against all odds, unrelenting with passion, stability, and security.

Where does love factor in with all of these things? Whatever you love, even if it is a person or something that you do, you will always pour everything your being is capable of doing to sustain it. Acts of love always open this potential that we have as humans to temper our spirit. It is the overflow of human potential radiating from a single person. It is a blade smithed to perfection, it is the hardened neuron that knows it will light up even after it dies. It is a ghost of an action long gone but still performed by the spirit of the doer. It is an action etched into time, transcending generations. It is an expression of faith, of reverence, of the channeling of life itself from one to another.

Showing up is just the first step. A first step that shall be done ten thousand times before moving to the next step: aligning your words to the tune of the universe.

[^1]: [[_logs/2025-01-12\|2025-01-12]]
[^2]: [[_logs/2025-01-16\|2025-01-16]]
[^3]: [[_logs/2025-01-17\|2025-01-17]]