---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/2025-01-07/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-07"}
---

Today was less intellectually interesting than most days. For some reason, my mind decided today that it is my body that should move. I did cover the books we bought from the end of 2023. Those things were long overdue because I knew I said that I will cover all six books we got for our end of year splurge. I just had a moment of "fuck it I'll do it now" earlier this morning since my workload is loose every start of the year.

Since I work on documentation, I'm always at the tail-end of the project development. My year-end tasks involved reviewing the responses of a knowledge check I created for our inhouse recruiters. It was part of a process improvement project to train our recruiters to better handle leads and convert them into sales. What we are trying to check is their own understanding of a supplementary material that I wrote for them, which contains all the learnings from their workshop sessions, such as how to build trust, how to ask better questions, and how to offer solutions. Technically, this task was way out of my field but I warmed up to the concept when I made the connection that it all boils down to effective communication.

I spent 4 hours of my work hours earlier trying to figure out how to use my phone as my laptop microphone and making sure that I capture the best sound possible from this piece of hardware. I've been eyeing for a better one but I know that I can still work with what I have and just upgrade when I have the means to do so.

Later this afternoon, I felt a mild headache that pushed me to take a few hours of rest. I hope tomorrow will be different. A taste of this day made me feel so passive that nothing worthwhile is happening inside my head. Perhaps this is my brain taking a break from all the thinking this week. In that case, I think I should really put my mind to rest.