---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/02-february/2025-02-27/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-02-27"}
---

It has grown a lot quieter recently. The bangs on the wall have ceased. The grinder that used to also sear my ears with its sharp cutting sound: metal to metal, has also stopped for a few days now and I am only beginning to realize. I'll have a short moment of lucidity during the day whenever I go down to the kitchen and get a glass of water, where suddenly, everything felt *safe* again. My mind doesn't need to exert extra effort to ignore the noises. I don't have to convince myself that eventually, my mind will tune the noises out. Peace slowly settles in as I hope that this would be one of our well-deserved breaks from all the noise. 

These unwanted and intrusive noises has been part of my [[_logs/_02_February/2025-02-05#^bb4781\|first week's demise]]. It did feel like my mind worked the extra mile lately just to keep myself barely running, at least to maintain the order inside the house: all the chores that need to be done and in taking care of Bobbi. Lately, I feel more present at work. Consultations with my manager has been going great and my progress with my current project has been going smoothly with its end in sight.

I feel like I'm starting to bounce back from all the suspended feelings I have had throughout this month. I may have been brewing some insights about how I lived my present life through all these unknown uncertainties. I am glad to have started this practice for this year. I do know that things slowed down. But I am slowly picking up where I left off and perhaps get some things moving around before this quarter ends.