---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/02-february/2025-02-17/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-02-17"}
---

I'm trying to get most of my AI-related news or thoughts on Twitter. Wild takes arise from both ends of the spectrum from doomsdayers and alarmists to the optimistic tech evangelists. But once in a while, the community is also ripe with people who have been wrestling with the existential threats of AI, especially within the rapid developments in LLMs. The drama among AI companies, how they scramble trying to helplessly fight tooth and nail to have the first foot on the threshold in the name of "human benefit," is such as spectacle to witness in real-time, but the elephant in the room is kept under the rags in terms of discussing *what do all of these developments mean?* and tackle the issue in real-time.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">the illusion of human exceptionalism crumbles fast when you see how much of our intelligence is just pattern recognition &amp; predictive modeling. ai exposes how much of what we call “creativity” is remixing, how much “insight” is regurgitation, &amp; how much “expertise” is just…</p>&mdash; signüll (@signulll) <a href="https://twitter.com/signulll/status/1891192852711190634?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 16, 2025</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I came across this tweet early in the morning and it somehow shed a light into my [[_thoughts/Existential Anxiety around the Advancements in Large Language Models\|anxieties]] about the existence of [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-04#^c91a78\|LLMs]]. Perhaps it is not even about the fear of realizing that we are about to be replaced but it is about the fear of having human intelligence undermined. That in cracking the code to mimic human thought to be performed by machines and making them indistinguishable to living breathing humans, reveals that we are not that too complicated to begin with? That what are touting as the "pinnacle of human intelligence" is actually a small step in realizing that intelligence has always been a matter of creating algorithmic patterns that predict our behavior?

In coming to this realization, I also realize that I have known this all along, and it is the suppression of this realization that is being proven now before my eyes is what creates this horror of understanding. 