---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/02-february/2025-02-26/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-02-26"}
---

It has been a few months since having this laptop made me [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-03#^c7a5d9\|more comfortable]] working solely on it. Not having to prop it on my docking station and use an external monitor on my office table offered me flexibility and some change in my surroundings when I need it, refreshing my brain at least even for just a short while, allowing me to work on our kitchen table. This gave me a sense of different headspace, introducing novelty to the place where I work.

Because of that, I took my office chair downstairs from our office and it remained in our kitchen table throughout January. If it makes any sense, it made me feel like my mental space expanded, opening new spaces in my brain where I can learn new things without having to choose to throw away some essential things that I have in my mind to make some space for the new. That spanned for an entire month and I just moved my office chair back to the office yesterday and began to actually focus on working.

I had this suspicion that working downstairs with my laptop grew too much in me that it became my own comfort zone. Work and play became blurred and it didn't feel the same productivity that I used to feel during the first few months using this laptop. I felt like it made me too complacent in having this tool. The thought of the possibility of an escape from my day job is becoming more real made me despondent and not reacting to anything work-related with urgency.

It is possible that it was a factor of this thematic low-spiritedness that I felt throughout February. As I try to dig myself up from this hole, I hope I am making the correct adjustments to keep my mind back on track.