---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/02-february/2025-02-25/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-02-25"}
---

I do no want to think nor do I want to classify that it is a fact that if I started the month on the wrong foot, that it will dictate how the rest of it will go: an uphill battle. However, the data from my logs this month somehow tells that [[_logs/_02_February/2025-02-24\|story]] so I'll roll with it for now. At least I have evidence for a timeframe of one of its occurrences. I would like to test it immediately as we only have a few days left before my birth month ends.

In the same context, this has been a nagging theme in my logs currently but I am actually feeling a sense of lightheadedness as we approach this month's ending. Somehow, it feels like a space suddenly grew, or emptied itself out for my recent study about Christianity. Since yesterday, I have tried to start doing some exegetical research about the religion to make sense of the tradition and practices. Watching Conclave last [[_logs/_02_February/2025-02-23\|Sunday]] felt like the start of my return to study the faith more rigorously as I have been trying to make sense of it outside of its own doctrine. I have been approaching faith through philosophy [^1] [^2] [^3] [^4] in the past so perhaps I can also start going into theology with the current framework I have in my mind right now.

I believe that there is no other better timing than now because of how much access to resources that I have to texts and other required readings and with my own personal experiences. Although, this decision is also brought by the fact that Fatima and I decided to have a Christian marriage, it has also become urgent for me to clarify my own involvement with the faith. That is still considering that I am entering this aspect of my life in my own terms and in my own way of understanding it.

I may still consider that my loose Catholic upbringing may still be a huge influence with this decision because with what I know so far about the differing belief systems and practices under the Christian doctrine, I am coming from a more technical, ritual-based kind of practice of the faith. However, I am being led by my own intellectual curiosity to learn more about Christianity through mysticism (as I have labeled my spiritual position to be apart from Spinozism) and reason. I am well aware that by saying that I am letting myself be guided by "reason" already limits my own experience of the divine on Christian terms but I would like to commit to reason in such a way that it is a glass that I want to fill. Only when the glass of reason is filled is when I can determine when the actual practice of spiritual faith starts for me. I will permit myself to map out the territory of faith based on the writings available to me before I allow myself to walk on the soil that I was told of.

In a sense, it may be counterintuitive against the practice of faith but for me, it is how I show commitment to Truth itself, whereas I want to know the value that is being held by the Christian faith against *aletheia* or "truth" as it was described by Heidegger.

I am expecting something that I will not disclose here yet because I do not want to make it a self-fulfilling prophecy to define my goal in understanding Christianity. I want it to be revealed to me as its own thing; to see God as He is and not as I see myself.

[^1]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-13\|2025-01-13]]
[^2]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-26\|2025-01-26]]
[^3]: [[_musings/Against Agnosticism\|Against Agnosticism]] 
[^4]: [[_logs/_02_February/2025-02-02\|2025-02-02]]