---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/01-january/2025-01-11/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-11"}
---

Yeah, so this day has been kind of a nudge towards doing creative work full-time. A lot has been happening in the background: testing some hardware, various types of software--just basically trying to optimize my setup towards my vision of freedom. One step at a time. Trying to achieve that balance of work, play, and rest.

Today, I am confronted by the limitations of my own hardware. I actually did not expect that I would hit one of the walls this soon, just two months after getting this new [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-03\|laptop]]. This week has been actually all about limitations. Exploring what these limits might mean. Which limitations can I push and which is out of my control. My perfectionism is running on full steam and it seems like I am entering the familiar road that can end in a possibility of failure. I am being too careful. I am acting very precise about planning because I feel like the quality of its execution will dictate how soon can I take full control of my life.

It may seem that I am putting too much at stake here when basically I am only talking about my creative pursuits. This website is one of them. This is the first step. While at the same time, I am also planning several first steps along the way. At the back of my head, a lot of processes are running so I would not lose grasp of my vision. I'm taking it all in as I make time to live my personal life.

Let this be a future reminder that I have talked to myself about taking a break, or at least take some day off from thinking about the future. What often fuels me is obsession. But it's not a healthy relationship with creation because I think I have a lot on my hands right now: things that I love having and want to keep, places where I want to go, these aspiration, which is the present and a vision of a future that I can see. I hold these things very dear and I know changing direction in terms of my career will only make it more difficult for me to handle all of these things simultaneously so I should not let the rush of excitement fill me up everyday.

