---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/01-january/2025-01-16/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-16"}
---

I am locked in today.

A slow work day with a lot of progress fixing and improving my website. We not have a background to revel in, which makes writing appealing for me. The graph is also fixed. No more annoying overspilling and overscans. Worked for a total of 1 hour this morning, right after receiving the request of editing a document. Today is just a good day for fixing things.

I have made myself busy to make some changes inside the mind department. All throughout this process, since [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-15\|yesterday]], it just feels like I am decluttering my head. The development goes something like:
- I want to improve something.
	- I try to fix it
		- Fixing it fixes it
			- Most of the time it causes problems
				- Adding more elements to be fixed
					- Until everything is an entangled mess
					- But tirelessly fixing it
				- Allows for me to see some parts of the problem
			- Taking a step forward
				- And sometimes, a step back
					- And another step further
				- But we manage
			- To see the problem better and provide a better fix
			- Until the problem makes more sense
		- And see more areas where you might have fucked everything up
		- More time passes fixing it
	- Until you arrive at a satisfying fix
	- But everything still doesn't feel right
	- So you add improvements
		- And it causes more problems...
			- And more problems
		- But tirelessly working on it
	- Allows for a better perspective
	- And better approaches
- Until everything is stable again

And we arrive at the point where an improvement is finally implemented. This is a type of process that is familiar to me because along those indents and problems, somewhere when things make sense and doesn't make sense, I am learning something without even knowing it. It seems like the conscious act of doing it is lost on me. When I'm in the moment of fixing things, [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-15#^9ddc2c\|I don't think about the amount of  time it is taking me]]. Whenever I'm faced with something like this, it brings me to the present. My mind is only in this problem and I will try to spend as much time as I can to fix it.

At the same time, I like how it brings my attention to the present. Everything disappears around me. Nothing is urgent except fixing that damned overspilling canvas in its container. I need to implement that background animation that just worked earlier but is now not working again because I added a transparency effect on my graph. What I mean to say is that *I like this aspect of my personality.* I hope that I don't lose this trait along the way. I know the effects of not persevering and it would be a huge disappointment if I will lose this vigor.

I know I have done a lot of things because of this trait and it is only now when I am beginning to recognize it as one of the things that pushes me beyond my limit. But I can't even really tell if it's my limit when I am conscious that I do enjoy the process, so I don't feel dread or ill-feelings about the actual act of doing it. In the very same vein, the daily logs is actually headed towards this habit-creation of just doing. The desired effect is slowly settling in. I just need to keep this pace. Slowly, in small bits of effort and by deliberately dedicating time, at least an hour per day.

I feel good that I can confirm that [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-13#^96a704\|I am showing up for myself]].