---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/01-january/2025-01-05/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-05"}
---

Fifth day and first Sunday of the year. It already feels like a lot has happened.

Around me:
1. Bobbi just had her annual rabies shot and consulted with her vet about her recurring hair loss.
2. First grocery run of the year just happened earlier. 

Within me:
1. Spiritual anxieties concerning recent AI news shed some light to some internal conflicts I had been harboring.
2. Planning about some future activities about my own career had me eyeing for tools and gears online. Thinking hard about the things I can buy, how it will help me, and when is the best time to buy them.

Great. So I just had 4 items to list this time. Still, the quantity fails to represent their actual weight on my mind.

I observed that I have been writing more as each day passes. This is actually unexpected but a totally welcome behavior that I want to have. I feel like I think a lot and not writing them down makes me intellectually constipated. Using Twitter on a regular basis has become less in terms of putting out thoughts in that platform. I might still keep it to still connect with what is happening around me. News about things I do not care about. Still, at least useful for inciting serendipity of information. The way it is becoming less and less populated by real people is becoming more and more palpable, or _readable_.

You can see it in how people talk, how they phrase their words, and how they reply to other people. Engagement farming, clout, and feeding our narcissist tendencies is not what it's good at right now. Money and narcissism is a deadly mix. That shit can kill a person's soul.

I clearly do not have anything useful to say today. Except to comment on my previous logs here that I will be taking this day as a break from thinking. It has been my own internal control mechanism to stop myself in the middle of a momentum to not get blindsided either by excitement or rush of novelty. This is something new to my own system. This is new to my routine and I care about this change too much to let myself burn out in the process.

I am enjoying this. I hope you are too.

Soon, this will extend to a new project that I am preparing in the meantime. Let me thrive in this commitment.