---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/01-january/2025-01-29/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-01-29"}
---

All my recent observations about the world,[^1][^2][^3][^4] myself,[^5][^6][^7]  and [[_thoughts/on twitter drama_no.1\|other people]] has always led me to the problem of [[_musings/Technology and its Discontents#^98beb8\|interpretation and the language used to interpret it]]. In language, I do not mean a country's distinct system of communication, but one's own personal way of *communicating with the world.* There is always a specific language that we develop for every person we know, with every topic we engage in, with how we look at the world. That kind of language can be seen in in our speech, patterns of thought, and physical gestures. We use this *language* to *absorb the world*, make sense of what we know and store in ourselves what we understand.

This may be an attempt to complicate the idea that "the meaning is always based on the one who perceives it" but I would like to go another layer that we have already been forming our own [[_events/A pocket of void in the universe#^dfcc2b\|secret language with the world]] from the moment we are born. This language is a type of *knowing*, it is our default way of understanding. It is automatic and quickly processed without deliberation. It is how we *[[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-22#^53e1b8\|speak without the use of our mouth, without our voice]]*, a disembodied engagement with the world where in the middle of this instant processing of the brain, how the world looks, how it appears to us, is entirely based on habits, which has formed a system of understanding that is also known to us as our own perception.

I have been meaning to dissect this concept of perception and I haven't really read up on this topic. I am just going through this concept of trying to illustrate what I know about it and why it is important to me (these ideas will be fleshed out in the future entries as the days pass). Right now, what I have is a visceral and intuitive understanding of how I interpret the world around me.

---
It has been too often that I am faced with the opportunity to talk about people. In these cases, I have been too quick to judge, especially in terms of what kind of person they are based on snippets of stories, which are often purely anecdotal. I don't feel good that this has been a type of *language* that I have come to create to interact with the world. It makes me feel to strict and rigid, especially when I seemingly impose a system that opens me to engage in a false sense of understanding. So at the end of my judgement, I always tell myself that it is only a possibility. Yet, almost all of those times, I am proven right.

These instances of being right only inspires confidence on my own framework. So I have been applying it to almost every person I know and it always leads to everyone's varying interpretations of the world. In the same sense that everything we do as an individual tells us about who we really are, even if who we really are is unknown to us. It feels like seeing through the code of the matrix of human interactions.

It gives me a glimpse of a somehow correct interpretation because of how consistent people become in this framework. Intent becomes clear as glass, its consequences more predictable, and the possibilities of a future more vividly imagined. This is what guides me through the murky waters of living. This gives me a sense of order amidst this chaotic world. For some reason, this has been my [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-22#^81467b\|battle against entropy]].

[^1]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-01\|2025-01-01]]
[^2]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-08\|2025-01-08]]
[^3]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-13\|2025-01-13]]
[^4]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-14\|2025-01-14]]
[^5]: [[_musings/A Journey into the Self\|A Journey into the Self]]
[^6]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-17\|2025-01-17]]
[^7]: [[_logs/_01_January/2025-01-18\|2025-01-18]]