---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/07-july/2025-07-07/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-07-07"}
---

Today is a Monday and I just realized that I had a 3-day gap since my most recent log. Since Friday, I took a whole cognitive rest that lent itself through the weekend. I may have done some work on Saturday but no time was spent doing some research and activity for my current project. In both days of the weekend, I was able to snag hours of afternoon naps. On Sunday, I was able to get some sun outside, meeting some people and travelling to Tagaytay as a day trip. Those days were the closest I have felt to having weekends when everything feels just like puzzle pieces that are effortlessly falling into place. I didn't worry about a task not being finished. I didn't care about a pause in my progress in my creative endeavor. I didn't give myself enough time to think. I just did things by leaving everything to time and that was enough.

There is a new supermarket that opened just less than a kilometer from where I live. It was probably one of the things that made this weekend more *natural.* We went there last Saturday night to get some groceries and get a feel of the variety of products that they sell. To my surprise, it is probably the most posh Shopwise grocery that I've been into. Their product selections are complete even to say the least. Wine, appliances, readymade to-go meals, pastries, wines, and other international products were neatly stocked on top of basic grocery supplies. It made our move here in Calamba to be more than satisfactory in the past year.

Today is more of just recovering from the inertia of rest. The weekend felt like a rush of being absolved from my always-on analytical mind. Only showed up to work to do the bare minimum. To be honest, my mind and body aren't even that looking forward to work. Spent a whole day debugging code that I shouldn't even have in the first place, just enough to keep my brain working on some of the lowest priorities just to move the needle.

Again, this feels like how my mind goes when it has had enough rest, but not enough time to reboot to its normal state. 