---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/06-june/2025-06-05/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-06-05"}
---

I am giving myself a lot of time just to think an allow myself take everything slowly. I have been preparing all the things that I must work on, learn all the skills that I must, improve on the things I know would help me create my vision. But I am also distracted about all the possibilities and I'm currently actively sifting through the ideas that would work for me. Amidst all the noise in my head and this excitement in my soul, I have to avoid falling into the trap of leaving things unfinished and starting a new project all over again.

I have worked on my consistency and capability to follow through and deliver. This site is a testament to that, which is something I really pushed myself to complete and publish before the previous year ended. Now, we're approaching the half of the year and I am still in the preparation phase as I work on my voice, which I would say, has become too practical as this direction was urgently pushed into me because of a lot of miscommunications that have been happening in my life. I have been frustrated long enough to just allow myself be frustrated and accept that I probably have a different way of talking than most people. 

But since I have been walking along this path of committing to an ambitious path of communication, why not also take the chance to throw myself into improving my speech? I do see a valuable use of this skill in my life as apparently being revealed to me every single day. Some conversations become seamless now. Not in a way that it allows me to read the minds of the people but to always be aware of what the other person is saying and what I must say in order to create a common ground of understanding. This is an idea that has been stuck in my head ever since I realized that and I am thinking of taking that idea to another level.