---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/06-june/2025-06-27/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-06-27"}
---

I've had a tough work week but it was a productive at best. This week was an exercise on how I can efficiently juggle work and this passion project. With its own seeming ease, one of the factors that I think that alleviated some of the supposed difficulty was subscribing to a meal plan for the entire week. That means no physical and mental energy spent on thinking about what to eat. I just wait for it to be delivered every night so my daily meals are secured before I give it an ounce of thought. I also derived a sense of pleasure in the element of surprise of not having a full picture of what I'm about to eat. Of course, the meal is pre-selected and I am informed beforehand. But I think still coming up surprised despite everything is a testament of how much food and nutrition was out of my mind.

This opened a lot of mental space in my head. It freed a whole lot of energy to be allocated in research, planning, and experimentation. It might have also improved my sleep quality. I performed better at work--even more than the times when I say that I am focused because this was a week of pure focus, moving projects, making decisions, asking for help, and executing tasks. This week felt so productive but it didn't feel heavy. I accomplished a lot of things and perhaps I can maintain this routine in a more balanced way when I get back into preparing my food. I know that I just gave myself a type of rest I needed while keeping myself on my toes. Tomorrow, I will be back to my old routine and hoping that there are some habits that my body learned throughout this experiment.