---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/06-june/2025-06-29/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-06-29"}
---

Today feels like this month is culminating towards a better sense of clarity in goals and mindset. June felt like it was ready to rock the mid-year boat but it seems like this adjustment of keeping a one-day buffer in writing my logs has been beneficial in brainstorming and calculating the steps that I must take to fulfill my vision. This month has brought me a lot of realizations and definite directions in the aspects of my life that I must change, the old habits that I must unlearn and refine and the new habits that I must form.

It felt more of a learning experience than just mere confirmation. There were things that I already know but I just didn't put much attention to it like the amount of time I spend each day preparing (including thinking of) meals for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, which astoundingly takes me a total of 4 hours of my day. This only became clear when I started eating pre-prepared foods by subscribing to a [[_logs/_06_June/2025-06-27\|meal plan]]. The time it used to take me preparing meals used to be an integrated activity in my day that I hadn't realized that it's been eating a lot of my time and energy for the day. Experiencing the absence of this friction made me realize how much things I can do in a single day, where possibilities start to exist by introducing a tiny bit of change in my life.

I guess there was no poetry nor philosophy for this month but direct practical application of a more experimental side of the things I can do with my life, and with the skills that I have. My current workload is slowly taking me to a somehow different direction of writing and creation. Faith is still in the background, slowly nudging my brain to act by carefully reflecting my actions with my beliefs.