---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/06-june/2025-06-23/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-06-23"}
---

With this newfound success I'm finding at work, I think my supervisor and the upper management see my increasing strategic potential in how I use LLMs in my workflow. Just earlier, I was assigned to another project that covers defining a QA Playbook that would help evaluating the effectiveness of a recruiter's discovery calls. This evaluation is meant to either predict or judge a recruiter's overall performance and quality of their client and candidate placements. This project will be an inter-departmental effort that includes me, our training specialist from HR, and our business improvement director. I've worked with these people before and it seemed like a pretty good roster for this kind of project.

Now, I feel like my scope of work as a Technical Writer in the company is veering away from my own essential responsibilities. My tasks are growing more and more strategic and analytical in a sense that I am becoming more exposed to company information that drives the performance of other people in the organization. I feel like a character working on the back-end of things, pushing people further in the best indirect way possible.

At this point, I feel that my value to the company is steadily growing, as I'm being pulled into more projects that are directly aimed at improving quality and efficiency in how we do work internally as a company. 

I just have an intuition (or maybe it's hope?) that more people would see me as an asset, in ways that I haven't shown before. One thing is for sure, that I have carved enough confidence in my own self that I can face others head to head for more demanding tasks.