---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logs/06-june/2025-06-17/","noteIcon":"","created":"2025-06-17"}
---

My day job is slowly transition from writing towards training AI tools with the kind of expertise that I have. I am actually being paid to externalize my expertise not in how I am expected to perform it but to make value judgements on how a machine may adapt the type of knowledge that I am producing. It sets a precarious feeling about where I stand, career-wise. I only think that there is a slow death in actual manual practicality. Automation is becoming the way of corporate, inevitably because we are riding on the waves of forced productivity and efficiency as the measurement of progress.

I am understanding a kind of agency in training these AI tools, where I am also slowly decoupling myself from my professional identity as a writer. This meant that being more exposed with how AI tools work in the workplace, tangentially becoming part of the back-end development for its implementation, I start to refocus this potential inwards. I see how I can leverage these tools, at most, in their most ethical (slightly reductive) sense. The only way to use it is to turn one's gaze away from its environmental impacts and the lack of sustainability efforts to maintain its very source: the Earth. I know that I am merely experiencing the rites of desensitization to these tools because of survival. I must adapt my brain in order to keep my job because refusing would mean being laid off. I am replaceable at work but I know enough that I must maintain the status quo because of the value that I am giving to the company.

In my case, it is only a matter of building my external foundation starting today. To hone my skills and apply them outside of work to start venturing in these opportunities that are presenting themselves to me. Choosing is preparing. I must act now even if it means that at this moment when I am still trying to survive, I must adapt and learn how to save myself in the process.